[THEME MUSIC]
>>LISA GARR: Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host of
"Gaiam Inspirations."
And today's story is one of
courage, acceptance, surrender,
and a lot of inspiration.
At six weeks old, Karen
Kain's baby, Lorrin,
had an adverse reaction to her
one and only DPT vaccination,
and the vaccine
attacked her brain,
leaving her with severe brain
damage, blind, nonverbal,
and a quadriplegic
with daily seizures.
And she only had the ability
to blink to communicate.
Karen Kain is the
courageous mother of Lorrin,
and she published a memoir
called "A Unique Life Fully
Lived," a loving tribute to
her daughter, who passed away
at the age of 15.
And if you or anyone
you know is part
of the ever-growing
percentage of families today
who are raising
special needs children,
Karen Kain has become a beacon
of light and inspiration,
sharing the life
skills that she learned
and that Lorrin is teaching
her about surrendering
and how to embrace life's
journey, which you have fully
done.
And I'm so happy
to have you here.
Thank you so much.
>>KAREN KAIN: Thank you.
I'm honored to be here.
>>LISA: So, tell us a little
bit about when you-- I mean,
were you always a
pioneer like this?
Have you always been one
to carry the torch forward
and to be a beacon of
light to many people?
Was that always who you were?
>>KAIN: No.
I really had no idea what
I wanted to do in life.
And I always knew I
wanted to be a mother.
And someone told me that
of every species when
a baby is at risk,
the mother goes crazy.
And I think that's
what happened to me.
I loved Lorrin and I just
wanted to do everything
I could possibly do
to take care of her
and give her the
best life possible.
>>LISA: But you never
felt like you went crazy.
I mean, maybe there was moments
where you felt, of course,
that you were going
to lose it completely.
But you're here today
with so much strength
and so much courage.
And did you ever feel like that?
Did you ever feel
that there were
moments where you were going
to just lose it completely?
>>KAIN: It was
really hard, and yes.
And I think every parent does.
With Lorrin, because
everybody gave me
such bad information
about her, I had no hope.
So the good thing is I didn't
have any rules, so I just
made up my own.
>>LISA: OK.
>>KAIN: I just loved
her and the more she
went through adversity,
the stronger she was.
And so I was always kind
of learning from her,
and I really was piggybacking
on her strength and her courage.
And then she taught me
really to be separate
and be alone and
take care of myself.
And, you know, I just needed
her to do her soul agreement
and let me do my soul agreement.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
You have learned so much.
And I want to take it
back to the beginning.
So we have a picture here of
Lorrin when she was a baby.
Now is this particular
picture, in the purple blanket,
was it before or after
she had the vaccine?
>>KAIN: It was right after.
I think it was right after
one of her hospital stays.
She was very, very young.
She was just a couple
months old and she
had a reaction at
six weeks of age
to her one and only DPT vaccine.
So she had a seizure two
hours after the vaccine,
and then she had another
seizure after that.
Both of those seizures
were five minutes long.
And so it's a very long time
to watch and hold my baby,
convulse and shake and
scream, out of control.
>>LISA: What did you do?
Where did you take her?
>>KAIN: I just held as far away
from me as I possibly could.
I was so afraid.
>>LISA: Yeah, but
where did you go?
Did you go to the hospital?
>>KAIN: I went back to the
pediatrician's immediately.
And then when I was in
the pediatrician's office,
she had another seizure.
And I just started screaming
at the pediatrician, you know,
make it stop.
Make it stop.
And she was very calm and then
I was really afraid of Lorrin.
She sent me back
to the hospital,
and then we spent
a couple days there
and ran all kinds
of tests trying
to figure out what it was.
No one was talking about
vaccine injury at the time.
They just kept saying babies
sometimes have seizures.
And that was the beginning
of my life changing forever.
>>LISA: And we have
a picture here of her
in the hospital going
through some of these tests.
Now, how did you relate
it back to the vaccine?
>>KAIN: It was so
obvious, because two hours
after the vaccine.
But because nobody talked
about it, this was back in '94,
there was no internet,
I was all alone.
And I really hoped
that she would just
stop having seizures.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAIN: And that did not happen.
>>LISA: They say kids
grow out of them.
>>KAIN: Right.
She was three months old
when the doctors really
told me to go home,
prepare for the worst,
there was something
really wrong.
She had nine five-minute
seizures in one day
at three months of age, and
her body was just lifeless.
And there was just no
answers to be had by anyone.
We kept doing test after test.
And I met a doctor
and he told me
that he thought it was a
classic vaccine reaction.
And then we started
researching and talking
about vaccines, the
old-fashioned way,
you know, via phone
and em-- not emails,
but just writing and calling.
And we learned that
children have injuries
and there was a compensation
program called the Vaccine
Compensation Program
that was started-- well,
it was changed in
1986, and Lorrin
qualified because
of the reaction.
And her vaccination
actually had 30 seizures--
kids had 30 seizures
or worse with that lot.
And then with the surrounding
lots, there was 10 deaths.
>>LISA: With that particular
batch of vaccines?
>>KAIN: Mm-hm.
The surrounding lot from her
vaccination had 10 deaths.
So, a lot-- we don't get to
ask how many is in a lot.
The government protects the drug
companies from telling us that,
but with Lorrin's lot and
the lots surrounding it,
there were 10 deaths
from children.
And so, we immediately-- the
government immediately agreed
that Lorrin was vaccine injured.
>>LISA: What about
the drug companies?
Was there any responsibility
taken in any way?
>>KAIN: They don't have
to be responsible at all.
The government has protected
them for many, many years,
because-- it's very complicated.
In 1960, the drug companies
wanted to stop making vaccines
because he kept getting sued.
So they started pulling
out and the government
stepped in and said,
you make the vaccines,
and we'll make a program
up to protect you.
So you cannot sue your doctor
and you cannot sue the drug
company.
And when you buy the vaccine,
they tax the vaccine.
So the money that goes to
vaccine injured families
like mine is from tax.
It doesn't come from the drug
companies or the government.
It comes from,
basically, the taxpayer.
And then, there's
a vaccine court.
And vaccine court, most people
don't know anything about it
because they don't
want you to know.
It's very private.
When we went to court,
there's no due process.
So in America-- this is
the only area in America
you do not get due process, and
that's the Vaccine Compensation
Program, where they
have special masters.
So at that time, they
had 11 special masters
and we had one picked
for our family.
And so we went
into a little room
and had our court time held
with just about six people.
Because they don't really
want you to go to court
and get a judge and a jury.
>>LISA: There's not a judge.
There's not a jury.
I see.
So this is something
that they are
well-suited to take care of.
There's an overhead for it.
There's a court system for it.
There's governmental
protection around it.
So this is obviously a problem.
>>KAIN: It's a huge problem,
especially for-- well,
for vaccine inured
families like myself,
they immediately said
she was vaccine injured.
But then you have to
find your own attorney,
and back in there was only one.
There's a great video that Rob
Schneider does about vaccine
court because the attorneys
for the government
have an endless amount of
money, and for the individuals,
you know, you're very limited.
They only pay the
attorneys so much
and it's very-- they make
it as difficult as possible.
I felt very bullied.
They tried to prove
me a bad parent
at one point, the
first time I met them.
>>LISA: They did?
>>KAIN: Yes.
And they pushed our
award off as long
as they could because
they were expecting Lorrin
to die because
she was very sick.
[GASPS]
>>LISA: Oh, my God!
>>KAIN: And I was devastated.
And I was broken.
And I just thought--
>>LISA: Of course!
>>KAIN: -they were
there to help me,
and I found very quickly
that they were not my friends
and they were not there to
support my family in healing.
They wanted us to go away.
>>LISA: So you're dealing with
the trauma of your baby, who
was obviously having
seizures and you
were challenged by
that, and you were
dealing with this court
system at the same time.
Did you have
support from anyone?
Anyone?
>>KAIN: At that
time, we had just
moved for my husband's work.
At that time, I was searching.
I joined some support groups.
>>LISA: OK.
>>KAIN: And I connected
with a parent or two
that had a child with seizures.
So I was kind of thrown
into it, and I was really
isolated from everything I
knew because my daughter was
very sick.
And people-- when you
have chronic illness,
it's very difficult to keep your
family intact and your friends
intact because not
very many people really
want to be near you.
And today, it's better
because you have the internet.
So there's a lot of
connections on the internet.
And I always just
felt at that time,
that's when I got
through all this,
that I would give back and try
to help families that are going
through this and share
my story to support them.
>>LISA: Well, that's what
you're absolutely doing.
So after this whole
process and you
realized that this
was a challenge,
this was-- she was
truly vaccine injured,
how did you start
to hear her voice?
What did-- how did the
communication begin?
>>KAIN: It was
really interesting
because in the
beginning, everyone just
said, go home and
prepare for the worst.
So every time I went to the
doctors, I got bad news.
And I was devastated.
But there was that inner
faith or that inner heart
string I think
every parent has--
>>LISA: Intuition.
>>KAIN: Right.
And so, Lorrin was
about three months old
the first time someone
told me that she
had come to them
in a dream and she
had talked to them in a dream.
And I went-- I actually went
in to purchase something
and then I went
back the next day
and the women just
said, matter of fact,
your daughter came to me
in my dream last night.
>>LISA: Was she psychic?
Or was--
>>KAIN: She was.
>>LISA: OK.
OK.
>>KAIN: And so I asked
her, I said, well,
what did she say about me?
And the woman said, oh,
we were just talking.
So it kind of planted
a seed for me.
I was like, OK, what's going on?
And I just became more drawn
to alternative medicine,
spirituality, because modern
medicine was not giving me
any support or any good news.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAIN: And I just
started opening the doors
to alternative healing.
And in the beginning, I
really wanted to heal Lorrin.
I wanted her to be
a healthy baby girl,
so I started doing
everything I could possibly
do to get her healed.
And in that process,
I really learned
that I needed the
healing and that Lorrin
was perfect the way she was.
But--
>>LISA: Wow.
Yes.
>>KAIN: We built sweat lodges.
I did drops and tinctures.
Craniosacral therapy,
acupuncture, macrobiotic diets,
juicing.
Everything--
>>LISA: Of course, yes.
>>KAIN: -that you could think
of alternative, I tried.
>>LISA: Part of the journey.
Absolutely.
>>KAIN: Absolutley.
>>LISA: And you also did develop
a communication style with her
around the blinking,
around-- how did you
teach her to communicate
through blinking?
>>KAIN: I knew she
was in there and I
could see she didn't
like certain things
and she didn't like the
taste of certain medicines.
And she was very forceful.
She loved to eat.
And I just had felt
that she was in there.
I knew when we came
home, she would smile.
And she would smile
at certain things.
And I didn't know
any better, so I just
treated her like she was normal.
And then when I cooked
all her food and pureed
it and she would
like certain things.
So I basically started
with things like chocolate
and said, if you want
chocolate, you have to blink.
Otherwise, you're
getting green beans.
And so--
>>LISA: It's just an
intuition that you came up
with or had you learned of this?
>>KAIN: I just could tell.
I don't-- it's just kind of when
you're around someone who is
intuitive, it's not a word.
You just get that feeling.
And I got that feeling from her.
And it was really baby steps.
One thing led to another.
I would meet someone
and they would
come up and be really
drawn to Lorrin.
And I believe it was because
she was exuding love.
We would walk in the room
and people are afraid of it
or they're drawn to it.
You know, love is
very powerful thing
and Lorrin just
was a ball of love.
And people just
started talking to me
and telling me about
their experiences.
And because I was
desperately searching,
I was asking anyone who would
listen how to help my child.
So I kept meeting people who
were gifted and communicating
telepathically or
energetically, and I just
wanted to do what
they were doing.
And I know she could
do something special.
And I just said, well,
I'm a regular person.
I'm not an intuit.
And so if you-- you need to
communicate with me by blinking
or a thumbs up.
And in the beginning, it
was certainly blinking.
So I just started bribing her.
You can have chocolate or
you can have green beans.
But if you blink, I'll
give you the chocolate.
So it was-- and a lot
of times, I think,
she knew that I knew
what she wanted.
And I started
meditating and I started
listening to my
inner voice, and so
she would look at me
knowing-- you know,
she'd give me that kind of look.
You know what I want.
And it's like, well,
people at school won't know
and other people that
aren't intuitive won't know,
so you need to really
participate and communicating
the best you can.
And it started with chocolate.
And I'm shopping--
Lorrin loved fashion.
So certainly by the
age of five, she really
had an opinion on fashion.
And--
>>LISA: How did you know?
How did you know?
>>KAIN: Well, it was really sad.
One day we were at
the Disney Store.
Of course, you
know, loved Disney,
so I was looking
at a Tigger outfit.
You know, everything was
Tigger and it was so cute.
And I was standing there and
I was just looking at her
and she just-- just
blank, nothing.
So I'm like, what's going on?
I'm like, you don't want this?
And she just kind
of looked at me.
And I was like, are
you too old for Tigger?
And she blinked.
It was like, oh, but
we just walked out.
And it was kind of one
of those things where
I was really glad that
she was communicating.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KAIN: I was embarrassed
and I was like,
OK, then we just walked
and I just kind of had
to sit with that.
So I think really
what she taught me
the most is that everyone's
always communicating,
they just do it differently.
And we need to look
for those subtle signs.
You know, it wasn't
this big thing.
It was just looking
at the subtle things
that were happening.
>>LISA: But at
the same time, you
don't have to be born
with a gift of mediumship,
that you could actually develop
this sense of intuition,
as did Lorrin.
She had-- this was her strength.
This is what she developed
because the other faculties
were not available.
So she developed her strength
of intuition and then
that-- you followed
that lead and got
a chance to develop
that with her.
>>KAIN: Absolutely.
>>LISA: When did you start
communicating through dreams?
>>KAIN: She communicated to
other people in dreams a lot,
probably more clearly.
And I was probably
really sleep deprived.
So she was communicating
and other people
would talk to me more.
And I started really
diving into meditation
and quieting my voice
and really trying
to just listen and then trust.
And it was like
everyone says, you know,
you think about that
person and the phone rings.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAIN: It was the
Celestine Prophecy time--
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAIN: -you know, in
'94, so I read that.
And I started
reading and started
meditating and I just-- I
knew other people could do it,
so I wanted to do it.
And then I just kept
practicing and then listening,
and asking her, you know,
and demanding of her,
well, I'm feeling this way.
And she would look at me
or come from that end.
It was always-- it's
never cause and effect.
It's not just
always simple, and I
think we have to be
really open when we go in
to communicating with someone.
But I think the most important
thing is trusting my gut
and taking care
of my spirit so I
can listen to what is
happening in my inner spirit.
>>LISA: Yes.
And so, did she--
you said that she
was very strong into fashion.
So did she start to tell
you what she wanted?
We graduated out
of Tigger, so now--
did she start to tell
you that she wanted
to go to things like
school functions and dances
and wear pretty dresses?
Did she tell you all that?
>>KAIN: Absolutely.
As she became a young
teen, as she-- by the time
she was eight and nine,
I was much, much better.
It was really a process
of learning to let go.
I had to, in the
very beginning, let
go of my dreams of being a
parent of a healthy child.
And that was devastating
for me, devastating.
And I just-- the more I resisted
things, the worse they got.
And so I just kept reading
and meditating and surrounding
myself with people who
were on the spiritual path.
And I think the strongest time
with me in an intuition time,
we put her in a coma twice
to stop the seizures.
And that was very, very scary--
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KAIN: -because, I mean,
I just never thought
that would be my kid.
Putting her in a coma to
stop-- to flatten her brain.
I was very scared.
And I showed up with my drops
and aromatherapy, radio, all
her cute blankets.
And I sat by her side
and I did reflexology
and I massaged her and did
oils, and just read to her
and read to her and prayed.
And all of a sudden, it
was just an a-ha moment.
I just felt this kind of shift
and I don't know if I heard--
I kind of am intuitive where
I just feel and I just know--
>>LISA: Mm-hm.
>>KAIN: And I just
thought, OK, Lorrin.
I have to just accept
you the way you are.
I cannot fix you.
You obviously aren't here
to be in a healthy body.
And I'm going to quit expecting
you to be well and just
love you the way you are.
And when you're ready
to go, you can go.
And if you're here to stay,
I'll take care of you.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KAIN: And I think on that day,
I became such a better partner
to her.
Putting all that pressure
on her to get well when--
>>LISA: And yourself.
>>KAIN: And myself.
Because if she wasn't
feeling sorry for herself,
who am I to feel
sorry for myself?
So that was kind of a big step--
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KAIN: -for me.
And that was at three.
>>LISA: And she was
about nine years old?
>>KAIN: No, that was at three.
>>LISA: Three years old, OK.
>>KAIN: So at three,
I kind of went on now.
But still, you know, it doesn't
mean that I woke up the next
and everything's great.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAIN: I mean,
I still am human.
She's who she is.
And I'm still a
woman, a mother, and I
have ideas about how I
would like life to be.
And once I really just
kind of let go of that
and connect with
her, we just started
enjoying everything we could.
And part of that was shopping.
So I would take her
shopping and I would just
get everything out,
let her see everything,
and then encourage her to blink.
If you want this,
you have to blink.
And you know, if you knew
Lorrin, she loved fashion.
And we would do the Build A Bear
and with foods and with trips.
Any opportunity of something
she would love to do
was a great opportunity
for her to communicate.
And I was preparing her for
when she was away from me
at school, because
I wanted people
to be able to ask her
a question and then
her be able to
communicate with them.
Because if you see it,
then you believe it.
And it was always
a process with me.
And there were times, especially
as she was nine years old,
she started liking
rap and all of that.
And I was just-- I was in the
car one day and I looked at her
and I just had this
kind of a hint I guess.
I said, do you like rap?
And she blinked and
kind of scowled at me
and I was like oh, OK.
So then I just started buying--
>>LISA: Of course, I do.
>>KAIN: Yeah.
I just started
buying her rap music,
but I always tried to
be age appropriate.
And I think that's
really, really important
for parents to understand.
I think a lot of times,
especially with kids
like Lorrin where
they're nonverbal
and they're not mobile, we
really bring the world to them.
And if we-- I think
for me, if I'm
listening to Disney
her entire life,
I think she would
have just shut down.
But I shifted, you know,
when she got out of Disney,
then we-- you know, you just
shifted age appropriate.
She was a teenager, so
she wanted the same things
all teenagers do and
that's the school dances.
She was in a beauty pageant.
And just keeping
the carrot out there
for fun and age
appropriate and stimuli
knowing that she can do
anything she wanted to do.
>>LISA: And then she developed
great friends at school
as well, where the
other kids embraced her
and invited her for
sleepovers and fun things
like that as well?
>>KAIN: That was the best part.
That was the best part.
>>LISA: Tell me about that.
>>KAIN: Well, we
started every January
and we started setting goals.
Because once I realized that
Lorrin had a soul agreement
and I had a soul agreement
and we were together,
but she was here to do her thing
and I was here to do my thing.
And I was the able-bodied
person, so, of course,
I can make my stuff
happen all the time.
But when I started
respecting her
and what she had
come here to do,
and knowing that she was here to
be in a body that wasn't going
to work, then I just kind
of let her do her thing.
And I had my ideas
what I wanted to do.
So we'd sit in January.
I would take her to
the beach and I'd just
bring pen and paper and
I'd pray and I'd meditate,
and it was what do we want
to bring into our life?
And we did the vision board,
but it starts with a goal.
And we'd write a couple
goals down, just a few.
Not a ton because it's crazy
to say all the things that I
wanted her to do.
We just focused on what we were
going to make happen that year.
And friendships came up.
She had friends and she
had kids that were unique
and her cousins and
everything, but it
was like that best friend.
Every mother wants their kid
to have that best friend.
And every kid, I think,
wants to have that friend.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KAIN: So we applied
for a service dog.
I put a lot of work into
that and we got that
and I felt like we
had won the lottery.
And at that same time
in middle school,
she had a nurse
named Debbie that
started going to
school with her.
And no one expected
Lorrin to go to school.
They all thought
that she would never
show up because she
would be too sick.
And I talked to
Lorrin and I said,
if you get sick
this year, they're
going to pull you out
of school and you're not
going to be able
to go every day.
Because they always
pull kids that
are severely disabled
out of school
during the cold and flu season.
So I said, you get sick,
you can't go to school
and you're not going to be
able to get friends this year.
So she kind of looked at me.
And she didn't miss
one day of school
that year for being sick.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KAIN: And I just told her, I
was like, you can't get sick.
And Debbie started
taking her to school.
She went to school
every day with her.
And I told Debbie, we
really want friendships.
And I-- and it's
all in the book.
I worked really, really hard
with a bunch of teachers
getting her in a regular class.
And then I asked the teacher
if we could have a party,
so we did that.
And the nurse came
home and she just said,
it's not really working.
The kids aren't connecting.
It's kind of a hard
age, middle school.
And I said, well, give
me two more weeks.
So in that time, they
started a trimester.
So the new trimester started
and Debbie took it upon herself
and she got up in front of
school in the class and said,
this is Lorrin.
She has a vaccine injury.
She has brain damage.
She has seizures.
But she loves chocolate,
she loves shopping,
she loves Disney Channel,
and she loves everything.
The same things
all the kids like.
Because that's all they want
to know is what does she do?
How does she do it?
>>LISA: Is she like me?
>>KAIN: Exactly.
Exactly.
And adults.
We all are curious.
So a boy said, can she walk?
No.
Can she talk?
And then, can she see?
Well, not really.
And someone said, is she
the worst disabled kid ever?
And Debbie said, well
maybe at this school.
But come in her class
and you can say hello
to her and her classmates.
And then on that day, two groups
of kids came in Lorrin's class
and they came in every single
day for the next two years.
They came in before school.
They came in to see
what she was wearing,
to see if she was awake.
They came in at lunch and they
applied to work in her class.
And it just started
this huge thing.
And then my cell phone that
was for the 9-1-1 emergency
became the cute
question of the day.
So she started
calling me and saying,
the kids want to know this and
they have all this questions.
And then she said,
the kids want to know
if she ever had a sleepover?
And I said, no.
Do you think they want one?
And she said, I think they do.
So the kids kind of just started
this relationship with Debbie.
And then we had a sleepover.
And then we had
another sleepover.
And it just was completely the
best part of Lorrin's life.
>>LISA: There's a picture
here of Lorrin in her--
in her dress, in her prom
dress, which is very beautiful.
And it was, you know,
a gorgeous floor
to ceiling-- not floor to
ceiling, to the floor dress
and she must have
had a wonderful time.
That was the prom dress?
>>KAIN: This is her Quinceanera
dress, but she did go--
>>LISA: Oh, Quinceanera.
>>KAIN: -she went to--
she went to a high school
dance, the homecoming dance.
This was her Quinceanera dress.
And this is another time where
Lorrin in 2009 in January,
she came to me in a
dream, and she told me
she was ready to go.
Because I had made that
promise to her her whole life.
If you want to stay,
I'll take care of you.
When you're ready to
go, I'll make sure
that you will be
comfortable and I'll
do everything I can for you.
And so it was always her
choice, and it took the pressure
off me.
And we started doing
this about after she
was five, or three to
five, I'd always tell her
you're really sick and if
this is your time, I'll be OK.
I always told her that.
And then in January, she
told me she was ready to go.
So--
>>LISA: Before her 15th year?
>>KAIN: Yes.
Three months before
her 15th birthday.
We were in ICU and she had
had a seizure for about a week
that we couldn't stop.
And it was clear that
her body was changing.
But as a mother,
you know, I always
had hope and everybody
had been rallying for her
and she just had
all these friends.
And so, I just sat
there and she blinked.
I made her blink 100 times.
You know, you're ready to go?
You're ready to die?
You're going to leave your body?
I just wanted to make sure
that I understood her.
And so I just
thought, well, what
are we going to do with this?
And I didn't want to
focus on her dying,
and so we planned a
party for her birthday.
So we had 100 people.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KAIN: And--
>>KAIN: -we just totally
focused on the celebration.
And I had a purple dress--
we went on the internet
because she was too sick
at that time to shop.
So I went on the internet
and I picked out a dress
and I'd put Lorrin in her chair
and we'd get on the computer
and we'd look and look and look.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KAIN: It was purple.
I loved it.
And Lorrin was just nothing.
And I was like
forcing, are you sure?
You sure?
And then one night,
I had a dream
and I saw this big coral dress.
And I woke up and
I told Carissa,
I said, it's not
purple, it's coral.
So I called the bridal shop
and I said, we're coming in,
show me your coral dresses.
That's all.
I just said show me
what you have in coral.
And, of course, Lorrin picked
the most expensive dress,
and the most elaborate dress.
And then I was
just like, I knew.
So that was-- it was just one
of those little tiny things.
It wasn't like
Lorrin was telling me
the day she was going
to die or all of this--
>>LISA: The fun things.
>>KAIN: She was coaching me.
>>LISA: And she always--
if you were to say,
did she always have a
positive outlook or spirit?
>>KAIN: She was always happy.
>>LISA: Always happy.
>>KAIN: She was always loving.
She never complained.
When she was sick, she
was sick, really sick,
and things were scary.
But when she was
better, she was on.
And she loved life.
She loved being a girl.
She loved her friends.
And it's magical.
>>LISA: We have a picture
here of one of her friends.
Is this one of her
friends from the school?
>>KAIN: That's her best
friend, Sarah Rivera.
That is the person who just
changed her whole life.
I mean, she made a lot
of different friends.
In her first sleepover,
there were five girls.
But Sarah and Lorrin really
connected for a long time.
And it's not anything
I could make up,
I just really set the tone
and allowed it to happen.
And one of the cutest stories in
middle school one time, Debbie
went to school with
her all the time.
And Lorrin only breathed
out of the hole in her neck,
so she very medically fragile
so she could occlude her airway
if she fell forward at any
time and it was very scary.
You just had to
be really on her.
And one time Sarah
ran into school
and she said, Debbie, I need
to talk to Lorrin by myself.
So Lorrin was sitting in
a sleeping bag and Debbie
kind of backed
off just watching.
And Sarah was over
there and she's
talking and talking and
talking and they were about 12,
and Lorrin's blinking,
blinking, blinking.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>KAIN: And then they kind of
did whatever they had to do.
She left and she
said, thanks, Debbie.
I just needed to talk to
her alone for a minute.
It's just-- they
just were soul mates.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KAIN: They connected.
And they had--
Sarah is completely
unaffected by her disabilities.
Completely unaffected.
>>LISA: Wonderful.
Wow.
What wonderful friends.
And you guys also went to
vacations and traveled?
>>KAIN: Lorrin
traveled all over.
We swam with the dolphins
four times in Key Largo.
We went to Mexico.
We went to Canada.
We went to New York.
We did everything.
We tent camped.
I really felt as Lorrin's
mother that no just
meant that I was asking
the wrong person.
>>LISA: Oh, that's
a great lesson.
Oh my gosh, your
lessons are amazing.
>>KAIN: It--
>>LISA: That was a great lesson.
>>KAIN: I didn't hang out
with people who said no.
And so--
[LISA LAUGHING]
>>KAIN: -we-- and
she rode horses.
I mean, anything that every
other person wants to do.
And I didn't put ourselves in
positions that were failures.
You know, I made sure that
we could probably do it.
But we just did
whatever we wanted to.
We had a lot of fun.
>>LISA: No meant you're just
asking the wrong person.
>>KAIN: Absolutely.
>>LISA: I love that.
There's so many lessons that
you've learned through this.
I want to have a look at a
video of you talking about
the book, "A Unique
Life Fully Lived."
Take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-When I look at
Lorrin's soul agreement,
and looking at the
reasons why she came here
and the reasons she picked
this body, and the reasons
she did what she did, it
made a lot more sense to me.
Because had she walked and
had she talked and had she not
been injured by the
vaccine, my life
would have been
totally different.
But because of all
those circumstances,
because I went
through so much pain
being her mother
in the early years,
I can sit with
someone else's pain.
Because I learned
about judgment,
I really think I'm pretty
good at not passing judgment.
And because I went
through so much turmoil
with her and so much
loss and, you know,
I really felt that I
had lost everything
that I ever hoped
my life would be.
Because if I can kind
of help any parent
with the keys of reminding
them that there's a great love
that happens and there's a
great opportunity for growth.
And there's a
great-- a great joy
that can be had in life
when your child isn't
perfect or isn't normal
or comes out different.
If we could look at our
children and, if in prayer
or meditation, if we take
that moment and we reach
them and we ask them, what
did you come here to teach me?
What are my lessons
in life about having
a child with a disability
or with 50 disabilities?
You know, what am I to learn
about living in the hospital?
I really just had to kind
of become an observer,
as in watching a
movie and see things
how they were playing
out and decide
what I was going
to take from that.
Was I going to change the
way I responded to people?
Was I going to become more
compassionate towards people?
Was I going to pass judgment?
Or was I going to
grow and learn?
Years ago, when people wanted
to be spiritually educated,
they would go in a
monastery and they
would spend 17, 20 years there.
It's my belief that my daughter
came here to teach spirituality
and to teach love and to teach
compassion and forgiveness.
And my 15 years
with her was really
just an education of
a different thinking.
I really believe we're
coming to a world
that we don't look at someone
like Lorrin and think,
you don't belong or
you're not in there
or you're not important.
I think that there's a time we
will look at all individuals
and know that they're important,
and know that they are
teachers, and know that
they have spiritual reasons.
And I think that
that's very powerful.
And I think it's very important
that we look at each other
and know the every single
person's important.
And so, it was an honor
being Lorrin's mother, having
her teach me these
little bits and pieces.
And it couldn't
come the first year,
because the first
year I really wasn't
even able to deal with
anything except my feelings
and my emotions and survival.
And it really didn't
even come the fifth year.
It basically has been just a
process of learning from her.
And I think when
we give ourselves
opportunity to learn compassion,
it's a very powerful thing.
She was teaching
other people, too.
It was another moment
that I had to realize
that it wasn't all about me.
Lorrin didn't come
here just to teach me.
She taught all kinds of people.
She actually would
teach anyone who
would show up to listen or
maybe to observe and give her
a moment.
And I think that's a quite
powerful thing for someone
to decide to come in a body
that was riddled with pain,
filled with drugs, that people
would basically reject her
just for being her because
they were afraid of her
and afraid of the way she
looked and afraid that she had
a trach, or they would make
fun of her for being different.
This little girl chose
this body to teach people
love and compassion.
And so, she has
my great respect.
And I think that if
parents could understand
that if your child happens
to be a little bit different,
it doesn't mean that they're
not going to be important.
But their job really
is even more important
because they have the
courage to show up for us
and they love us enough
to teach us strength
and to teach us those lessons
in life that could possibly
be sometimes gentle lessons,
and sometimes really
difficult lessons.
I hope this helps you
as a parent, a teacher,
or a caregiver of someone
who's living a unique life
experience.
Know that what you're
doing with your child
is a beautiful thing, and
our children who are unique
are magnificent.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: You've certainly gained
an enormous amount of insights
and I want you to share
some of-- you know,
if you could kind of
encapsulate some of your tips.
And we have a sheet
here of your tips.
These are spiritual
tips, but I just
want to ask you before
we go through those,
can you hear Lorrin now, today?
Can you hear her throughout
your daily walking life?
>>KAIN: I feel her all the time.
I hear her also, but I kind of
feel-- she told me one time,
she said, if I told
you everything,
it would take the surprise away.
So I try to just
ask for her energy.
Of course, sometimes
I'll be like,
you know, I need
help here, Lorrin,
or-- I know she's
in an amazing place.
I've never worried
about her ever.
>>LISA: Has she
communicated that to you?
>>KAIN: Yes, yes.
I mean, I knew before.
She said--
>>LISA: Where is she?
>>KAIN: I think
she's everywhere.
I think she's everywhere.
>>LISA: But when you say
she's in an amazing place,
does she describe it?
>>KAIN: She said
one time, clearly,
she said, if you could
see what I see, mom.
I think she was like--
and when she was here,
I think she was in
a physical body,
but I think she also
had the capacity
to be in that spirit realm.
>>LISA: To travel, mm-hm.
>>KAIN: Just to be completely
away from her body.
And I knew that about her,
so it would make me mad
that she had the capacity to
pull herself out of her body
and then I would be
here caring for it.
It's like, get
back in your body.
I'm like, I know you're
out gallivanting,
but I've got to
clean up this mess.
Sometimes things were a little
messy her last year of life.
But I think one of the
most profound things she
said to me recently when I was
at the AutismOne Conference,
because that is-- my
heart is with children
who are vaccine injured.
All children-- all
children who are unique
are here just to do exactly
what they're here to do.
But, of course, I'm
very sensitive speaking
to children who are
vaccine injured.
And so I'm always asking
her, and usually she says,
make it fun, mom.
And that day, she said, mom,
tell them it was worth it.
And it just came
so clear to me--
>>LISA: Wow.
>>KAIN: -and so strong and
it just-- that's Lorrin.
She just is always
full of love and I
want to really
remind parents first
to take care of themselves.
We can't do anything--
we can't be spiritual,
we can't be good parents, we
can't be good to ourselves
if we're exhausted and not
taking care of ourselves
and everything falls apart.
And I think that's typically
what mothers don't do.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAIN: First, they
do everything else.
And because they think
that's-- and I did the same.
You know, I was a martyr.
I was beating myself up.
I was exhausted and I
couldn't hold it together.
I couldn't make life
and death decisions
because I just-- I
was barely breathing.
So I want to remind
parents and families
to take care of
themselves first.
And make it fun.
>>LISA: You made an
interesting comment
before the show about 95%
of parents with children
with disabilities
don't stay together.
That's a very high number.
What could you contribute
to allow that statistic
to go down?
>>KAIN: I think a
big part-- well,
I mean, grief-- everyone
grieves differently.
>>LISA: Yes
>>KAIN: And kids, you
know, siblings and couples,
we grieve differently.
And that's a very
difficult thing,
because typically we're
always somewhere else.
It doesn't matter
how smart you are,
it doesn't matter how educated
you are, or spiritual.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KAIN: Everybody
does that differently.
I think communicating
and reminding
that the couple,
the family together,
has to be taken care of.
And a lot of times, especially
I did, everything was Lorrin.
Everything I did was Lorrin.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAIN: And the coping skills?
I didn't get married
and think that we
would be deciding if
we're going to pull
the plug on my daughter.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAIN: That is
not anything I ever
thought I would be
making a decision on.
So-- and it's stressful.
I lived in the hospital
for two years with her.
It's high stress.
And not having rules.
And back then, there
was no internet.
I couldn't get on
the internet and say,
does anybody feel like me?
Now, at least there's
tons of families,
there's tons of
parents out there
connecting and supporting.
>>LISA: That's good.
And they're doing it
together because there's
a lot more awareness
around it now.
But in the past, maybe the other
parent felt alone completely
>>KAIN: Yeah.
>>LISA: It's something that--
do you talk about this as well
in the conferences when
you go to talk to--
>>KAIN: Absolutely.
>>LISA: -the AutismOne
and so forth?
>>KAIN: Absolutely.
I think first and foremost,
we take care of ourselves.
And I think then
it kind of opens
the gateway for the intuition.
And I always try
to remind parents
that our children are here doing
exactly what they need to do.
And parenting children
who are unique
is the most important job
that you'll ever have.
The Native American community
totally holds these kids up.
They know how important and
how magical these children are
and how wise that they
came here to teach us.
Because with
Lorrin, I think, she
came here to do a
really tough job.
You know, people
would look at her
and say, why would you
ever want to do that?
But look what she has
done and the power
of her and her belief
in God and her faith
to trust me as her mother and to
go out and be in the community.
And so I'm doing my half of
my soul agreement, I hope.
I'm sure there's more,
but that's my commitment
to Lorrin because I
think she came here
to do exactly what
she needed to do.
>>LISA: Which is to communicate?
>>KAIN: To communicate.
To change, hopefully, the
vaccine program, the way we
treat families.
To remind parents that children
who are unique are valuable.
Every soul is important,
no matter their ability.
To remember that we
can look into the eyes
and see the soul of somebody.
They don't have to communicate.
They don't have to walk.
And to not discount any of us
because some are able-bodied
and some aren't.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KAIN: Everybody's important.
And I think creating
our own reality,
I mean, I really had to
change my perspective when
I was suffering and
I felt there was
lack in Lorrin, that's
what I would get.
And when I accepted
her and saw that she
was perfect the way she was,
then I would see the magic.
And the more magic I felt,
because she always was magical,
then the more magic we
brought into our life.
>>LISA: That was one of the
tips that you have here,
is that the world
that we live in
is a projection of
our own thoughts.
>>KAIN: Absolutely.
>>LISA: So if you
felt lack, then
you would accept-- that's what
you would attract is lack.
And she taught you this
in some way, right?
>>KAIN: Absolutely.
And my friend told me,
he says, if you ever
wonder what you
believe, just look
what you've surrounded
yourself with.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAIN: And I believe
that there's magic
and I believe that I
can do anything I want.
I mean, look, I'm here with
you talking about the story.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>KAIN: I just felt-- and I
felt very much as her parent,
but I was in school.
I mean, I feel like-- you
know, Lorrin always said,
like is but a coffee break, mom.
Get over yourself.
>>LISA: She said that?
>>KAIN: Oh, she was just
very whatever with me
because I was always drama.
She's just, you know,
get over it, mom.
Because she just had this
amazing belief and confidence
and trust and she
always exuded that.
>>LISA: That everything
was going to be all right?
>>KAIN: Mm-hm.
And ironically, she still
loved fashion and chocolate
and wanted to shop.
But she always-- she was so
loving, at her funeral someone
said it so perfectly that
Lorrin made people feel safe.
And that's so strange
because you really
had to experience it.
And I knew when she
was crossing over,
that would be what I
missed the most in my home.
I know she's still there
and all that, but just
walking into a house that is
filled with love and trust.
And so I just held
her up and just
really wanted to learn
everything I could from her.
Because I felt if you've
come here to be in this body
and you're putting
up with all this,
I need to really
learn my lessons
that you're here to teach--
>>LISA: And--
>>KAIN: -as quick as I can.
>>LISA: And is
that-- those lessons
that she taught you
are continuing to come,
aren't they?
>>KAIN: Absolutely.
>>LISA: I mean, it's
not just these tips
that you wrote here
and the spiritual tips.
You have a lot more that
you've learned, haven't you?
>>KAIN: I'm learning every day.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KAIN: -and I challenge
myself every day.
And I don't-- you know, Lorrin
certainly wants me to tell
everybody that I was
not a sainted parent,
not a perfect parent--
>>LISA: None of us are.
>>KAIN: -not a perfect mother.
I did a lot of things wrong.
I went in kicking and
screaming and crying.
So it wasn't that I
was just zen with her
and oh, great, this
is going to be lovely.
I had to learn by
letting everything
go that I thought was
important in my life.
I lost everything.
And I never thought
that I could live
and be happy without
having another child.
>>LISA: Did you ever
decide to do that?
To have another child?
>>KAIN: It just didn't work.
I wanted to desperately.
And I really believed there
was a time that I couldn't even
think that thought
without crying.
I just thought, she's going
to die, I'm going to be alone,
and I'm not going to be a mom.
I miss being a mom.
I miss all of that.
You know, of course I
miss so many things.
But I realize I'm here to
do exactly what I'm doing.
And if I can help
one family and help
one parent to shift their
perspective from fear and lack
to love and acceptance and
embracing and supporting
and enjoying--
>>LISA: Well, you're
a mother to many.
I mean, consider
what you do now.
You are a support to mothers and
you're a support to children.
So essentially,
you're the mother
of many, many children,
not just one anymore.
>>KAIN: I love it.
And I get to meet all
kinds of awesome kids.
And they are so magical.
Our kids are so magical.
We have to know
that's true and we
shouldn't be surprised
by the magic of Lorrin
and all these other kids.
We should expect
it and we should
be listening harder and
being open with our hearts.
Not with our minds and not
with what people tell us to be.
But to be listening
with our hearts
and hearing these children.
Because, I mean, I look
at them all the time
and I see their eyes and I see
into their soul and it's like,
I don't understand
everything they're saying.
But I know they're
communicating.
>>LISA: So tell me a little
bit more, if you can,
I'm very curious about the
world that Lorrin is in.
If you could give us any
sense of pictures of what
she describes.
And you said that if you
could see where she is now,
you would understand
that she's fine.
Has she ever given you
descriptions of that
or feelings or anything that
you could communicate to us?
>>KAIN: It-- a long time
ago when I would meditate,
I started seeing this
bright, bright light.
And I understood that
she was showing me
her light, which
was also my light.
She would just-- you
know, I would see this.
I would meditate
and I would just
feel this enormous presence and
love and energy and perfection
and just power.
And then she would
say, mom, this is you.
You see it in me because
this is who you are.
We are one.
And I have had
times where I just
feel this unbelievably powerful
feeling of love, of course.
And then it would
go, and it's like, I
want that back, you know.
I have to be physical
here right now.
I'm still physical.
When she comes in-- after she
died-- at first I just saw her.
And sometimes I
see her in my car
and I yell at her in the car.
That's where I, like,
yell at her all the time
and just have that-- I yelled
at her when she was here, too.
It's like, just whatever it is.
Like mothers, just
like where are you?
Or what are you doing?
Or what's this about?
Just like, I need a sign,
a big sign, you know.
Because I just always yelled
at her when she was here.
It was like, what are you doing?
We'd argue and she'd just look
or laugh or just roll her eyes
at me, because I'm
very verbal, obviously.
But she puts the fire
alarms off a lot,
and I asked her one time
before she died, I would just,
you know, how will I
know where you are?
And she said, when you see love
and magic and light in nature,
in anything
beautiful, I am there.
And that's sweet and not very
specific, but I have to trust.
I have to-- I trust in her.
And so how do I--
where is she at now?
She comes to me now and she
comes to me as a perfect
person, a perfect body,
which really throws me off
and it's really hard
for me because I'm--
>>LISA: Standing and--
>>KAIN: Just-- yeah.
A lot of-- she comes to
people all the time dancing
or ice skating, a
beautiful ballerina.
And then sometimes she
comes to different people,
I'm just saying to
a lot of different--
she'll come in eating all
kinds of different foods.
Like olives and chocolate and
this and just popping food.
And I see her running around
all the time, just really busy.
But when I'm meditating, she
comes in-- she'll come to me
and she'll hold my hand and
she'll look into my eyes.
And she has a crooked eye,
and she just does this.
So that's when I know
it's like serious.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>KAIN: Every night I
feel like when I sleep,
I was like-- because we
slept together all the time,
so I feel her energy.
A lot of times, it's more
of a feeling than a vision.
But when I do see see her
and she comes in perfect,
it throws me out of meditation.
And I just say, I love that
you have this perfect body,
but it's hard for me
because like part of you
was the crooked feet and the
eye crooked and the arms.
But she still comes in with it.
You know, she's going to
do what she's going to do.
[LISA LAUGHING]
And I asked her one time when
I was meditating, I said,
what do you miss most?
And she said, the
physical touch.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KAIN: And so that
just reminds me,
we-- I just feel like this
is just such a small time.
I don't feel-- I feel like we
have many lives, or you know,
she said really
they're parallel lives,
but I know that's probably more
confusing to really talk about.
>>LISA: No, it's actually not.
That is a question that I have
about these parallel universes
and that we do walk
in the same time,
although there is no time,
in just different realms.
Is that basically what
she's communicating?
Is that what you feel?
>>KAIN: That's-- I don't
fully understand it.
>>LISA: Not yet.
>>KAIN: You know, it's
always like the onion.
You know, I get to these
places of like oh, I get that.
>>LISA: Right.
Of course.
>>KAIN: People talk about
it, people talk about it,
>>LISA: As you're ready, yeah.
>>KAIN: I believe it's
a parallel universe.
There is no time.
So how silly of me to worry.
Of all of us.
But, of course, we all
worry about being on time.
But-- so she said
one time it was just
like throwing sand out.
It scatters everywhere.
So I believe that
there's a time of-- I
know the she's taken
care of me, absolutely.
I know that I've taken
care of her many times.
And that's also why I
don't judge other families.
I never look at a family and
say, you need to do what I did.
>>LISA: Oh, right.
>>KAIN: Because I have no idea
what their soul journey is.
I don't know what
their lesson is.
And who am I to say anything?
I just say this is what I
did, and if it calls to you.
>>LISA: Are we all
fulfilling that soul lesson?
Are we all discovering
it as we go along?
>>KAIN: I did-- I think
that's what we're here to do.
And I think that's the
most important thing.
And I remind myself every day
because most of what I do now
is communicate with families
and travel and talk to families,
and it takes a lot.
And I just remind myself,
life is but a coffee break.
And when I die, whether
it's tomorrow or today or 10
years from now or
whatever, I just
want to look back
and just feel like I
did what I came here to do.
And that's my soul purpose,
and in honor of her
and all of our children.
>>LISA: Yes.
And so what you came
here to do and when
you go to the conferences and
you speak at the AutismOne
Conferences and write books
and in your second book
is more lessons, what is it that
you feel you are here to do?
>>KAIN: I think I'm
to remind parents
that everybody's perfect.
The children are perfect
the way they came in.
For some reason
there's a lot-- well,
right now, 50% of our
children have chronic illness.
I would love to be
part of that change.
I would like to learn a
lesson in an easier way.
I felt that I was so
unaware 20 years ago that I
had to really learn this
lesson in very difficult ways.
It was very painful
letting go of what
I thought I was
going to be like.
>>LISA: Oh, yes.
Yeah.
>>KAIN: And then acceptance.
So really I think I'm here to
remind parents if I can do it,
anyone can do it.
Went through a really difficult
time and I'm still full of joy.
After she died, it took
a while, of course.
>>LISA: Yes,
>>KAIN: And it's very difficult.
>>LISA: The physical touch
part is, as I can imagine,
the most challenging--
>>KAIN: Letting go.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KAIN: But my faith tells me
that she's fine where she's at.
I'm here doing the work
that I agreed to do.
And I want to do the
best job possible.
I miss her, but I don't feel
like she's ever far away.
Of course, I would love
to have her sitting here.
Then she would just want
me to be quiet, I'm sure,
and her talk.
But I'm trying to do my best
to communicate the message
that she came here to teach, and
it's an honor and a privilege.
Certainly not the life I
thought I was going to have.
But it doesn't mean
it's a bad life.
>>LISA: No.
>>KAIN: It's a good life.
It's an important life.
And it's an honor to be able
to be on the other side.
So I just want to remind parents
that you can get through it.
>>LISA: Now, let's talk a
little bit about the vaccines
and do you coach
parents who are looking
at vaccinating their children?
Are you a voice in
that movement at all?
>>KAIN: I used to-- I
used to say educate.
Now I'm a lot more concerned.
53% of our children
have chronic illness.
People do not understand
what is in the vaccinations.
We're giving our kids 49
vaccines by the age of five.
I talk to parents all over the
US and it's the same story.
>>LISA: 49 vaccines.
>>KAIN: 49 vaccines by the
time they're age of five.
That vaccine schedule
has never been tested.
Our kids are sick.
We have a huge rate of SIDS.
And another terrible-- a
couple terrible things.
I travel all over
and I meet families
of more than one
vaccine injured child.
It used to be one.
Now--
>>LISA: Every day.
>>KAIN: -I was
speaking in Sacramento.
There were 50 people there.
There were six families who
had multiple kids with vaccine
injury.
We are-- pe-- the
drug companies are
trying to take our choice away.
They're vaccinating
six vaccines at a time.
They're giving eight
vaccines into a little baby
that you can't feed a banana.
It's not tested.
The kids are sick.
There's a new thing that's
happening where there's
a warning now to children who
are babysitting to not babysit
after the kid has been given
a vaccine because parents are
getting accused of
abusing their children.
This is becoming very rampant.
>>LISA: Explain that again.
>>KAIN: Well, the vaccine--
kids have vaccinations, right?
They give them eight vaccines.
And then all of a
sudden something
happens to the child--
>>LISA: Oh.
>>KAIN: -and then the
child gets brain damaged.
And then the parents
are being blamed
for shaken baby or something.
And this is becoming
a new epidemic
of parents being accused
of abusing their children.
>>LISA: As you had
experienced a little bit of.
They actually tried
to blame it on you?
The seizures?
>>KAIN: No, they didn't.
No.
Because I was in
a doctor's office
two hours after the vaccine.
>>LISA: Right.
>>KAIN: But this
is sometimes where
it happens days later or hours
later where all of a sudden
there was a healthy
baby, and then they come
and the baby is really
sick or brain injured
and the government is
blaming the parents.
>>LISA: The parents.
>>KAIN: Or the
babysitter or anybody.
And so parents are getting
arrested for abusing their kid.
>>LISA: Oh, my god.
>>KAIN: Yeah, it's crazy.
>>LISA: Wow.
So what do you do instead?
>>KAIN: Well, I think
we need to figure out
why we're giving
so many vaccines
and why are we doing a hepatitis
B vaccine the first day of life
and is that necessary?
I don't believe it is.
I wouldn't give six
vaccines to anybody.
And to really look at
it, it's just a fear.
And the doctors are
bullying parents.
>>LISA: It was different
when we were young.
There was only about five
or six when we were young--
>>KAIN: Maybe five or six, yeah.
>>LISA: -adults-- that
adults went through.
And now there's almost 50.
>>KAIN: Right.
There's 49 vaccines now and,
of course, they want more.
And they're not liable for
what happens to the kids
and the doctors
are kicking parents
out for not vaccinating them.
But I have to tell you,
I see healthy babies--
the healthiest babies I see are
breastfed and not vaccinated,
and they're thriving.
And the kids that are
vaccinated have the same story.
They were vaccinated,
then they get sick,
and then they're on
antibiotics, and more vaccines,
more antibiotics.
The doctor keeps telling the
parents that this is fine,
and then all of a sudden,
they're really sick.
>>LISA: And it's also
the emotional disorders.
And I'm not saying
that this is linked,
but it doesn't necessarily
have to be infections.
It could be anxiety, depression,
schizophrenia, anything
that has to do with emotional
or mental disorders as well.
I have read that
there are links,
but there isn't-- there's no
way to be able to prove anything
like that at this point.
>>KAIN: We have-- we
have a sick society,
and this is a huge concern.
We have 1 in 68
children with autism,
and that's a very low figure.
There's a lot more than that.
Our kids have diabetes,
they have chronic illness,
they have seizures, asthma.
>>LISA: Well, even if there's
no way to directly link
and if there is-- because
it's-- there's no emphasis
on the direct link, there's not
enough research that's being
done about it, those
studies won't be funded.
So the only thing that we
can do is to raise awareness
and to do your own research.
And you have brought
that for the one person
that has never heard of
this before in their life
and they're seeing this show
right now for the first time,
they're going to go tell
someone else watch this.
Listen to this lady
before you consider
vaccinating your child.
Do your research,
ask your doctor,
find a doctor who
doesn't vaccinate and see
what their opinions are.
There's so much--
there's such a long road
that you have to go on,
which is a very good road.
It's a much needed road.
>>KAIN: Absolutely.
>>LISA: Much needed.
>>KAIN: We're putting toxins
into our kids and our kids are
sick, and then everyone is
was walking around blaming
the parent or-- you know,
it's always back to blaming
the parent and--
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>KAIN: -we need to start really
raising awareness and talking
about it and demanding
research to be done.
>>LISA: Well, I want
to end on the note
of a few of the spiritual
tips that you do tell us
and that you have
gathered from all this.
And I know that you have so much
more to say, but one of them
is each soul has something
to contribute, yes?
Make it fun.
What you do on an
individual level
affects your surrounding,
your children.
We didn't talk about that as
much, but what do you mean?
What you do with
yourself affects--
>>KAIN: I think everything--
>>LISA: You're
mirroring constantly.
>>KAIN: How we feel and
who we are, And it's
like all the little things
kind of make up the big things.
So if I'm walking around
really angry and unloving,
I'm sure my child or
anybody doesn't really
want to be around me.
>>LISA: Right.
Right.
We talked about
the world that we
live in is a projection
of our own thoughts.
And finally, that we're part
of a greater whole connected
in a fundamental way, and
what I do to you affects me.
And that is a beautiful
way to live your life,
even if you have a child or not.
What I do affects
you and affects me.
So that's a beautiful
way to wrap up.
Thank you so much.
You're amazing.
I could talk to you forever.
>>KAIN: Thank you.
>>LISA: Thank you for
being so courageous
and being such an inspiration.
You're incredible.
>>KAIN: Thank you.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
>>LISA: And also,
if you would like
to watch a replay of this
interview with Karen Kain
or please share it with your
friends, go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[THEME MUSIC]